---
description: Worldbuilding for COA
subtitle: moen, maen, and tethlaen
---

# Apotheosis
*moen, maen, and tethlaen*

???+ warning ":octicons-pencil-16: Incomplete"

    Article is missing information.

Religion in Kaaldenvale is unlike religion in most other realities. In other realities without such a heavily reinforced [dimensional barrier](../../../The%20Cosmos/Firmament%20Theory/index.md#reality-composition), [Minor Immortals](../../../The%20Cosmos/Firmament%20Theory/Metaphysical%20Beings.md) will come and go often, mostly just passing through for a look. They’re very powerful and are venerated as such, but never as much as the tales of Great Immortals that they bring with them. In Kaaldenvale however, this doesn’t happen. The dimensional barrier is too strong for Minor Immortals to come through without effort.

Faevinity developed their own religions naturally. These religions incorporated many metaphysical concepts as all religions did, and trended towards being somewhat correct when real metaphysics came into the field.

The predominant religion is a polytheistic faith named the Church of the Trinity, wherein three deities of primal emotions were worshipped for providing the experience of sentience that so elevated (and devolved) life. Maki, deity of pain, Coruhn, deity of fear, and Ayueso, deity of pleasure.

Trinitians believe in one afterlife realm on a hidden celestial body somewhere within the outer boundaries of Kaaldenvale. Specifically, they believe it to be a hidden haven in the realm, past the dimensional barrier in the transition zone to the Void. This area is extremely dangerous to a physical being as it contains many anomalies generated by the merging of physical and metaphysical aspects in a more holistic manner than is found in a reality. Those deemed good will go to the Haven, while those deemed bad will be cast outside the gates and into the transitionary zone, Hell. The zone is also divided into various segments, but the number has varied over time so you may hear people say there’s anything from six to twelve hells.
